Loading Assets
--------------

You can load 3D assets from the TACTIC repository directly into the 3D
application using the Checkout view. Assets retrieved from the Checkout
view are loaded in their neutral position. (At present, this is the
position they were last checked in at.)

The Asset Loader view is located within the Task views Work Area as a
tab.

image:media/WorkArea.png[image]

All loadable 3D assets are shown in the Checkout view. This view has
multiple uses, and can be used to change the definition of the assets
themselves. The ability to load assets from this view may or may not be
available, depending on definitions provided by your project manager.

image:media/assetLoader.png[image]

To modify an asset,

1.  Search for the asset in the 3D Asset tab and load it into the
session.
+
In Houdini, this asset will be loaded as a reference.
2.  Before you can make any modifications, you must make the asset
editable.
+
In Houdini, right-click on the digital asset and select "allow editing".
+
In Maya, choose the "Import" loading option to change the mesh, or the
"reference" loading option to apply an edit data set on a referenced
model.

image:media/Loader_Options.png[image]

[width="100%",cols="21%,9%,70%",]
|=======================================================================
|*Connection* |Http |Http option uses the web server to retrieve the
files. The files are marshaled through an "http" connection locally to
the client machine and all references in the Maya session are from files
that exist locally.

|[multiblock cell omitted] |File System |The files are loaded directly
from the central TACTIC repository. This option requires access to the
central file servers, and takes advantage of the large bandwidth
typically found internally at production facilities.

|*Instantiation* |Reference |Reference option allows Tactic to insert
the asset into the 3D session as a reference.

|[multiblock cell omitted] |Import |This option imports the asset into
the 3D session.

|[multiblock cell omitted] |Open |This option opens the asset in the 3D
application. This option will clear the session without saving.

|*Texture Dependencies* |As checked in |This option loads the same
preferences of the Latest and Current Assets. (This option is possible
because TACTIC tracks asset versions from session to session.)

|[multiblock cell omitted] |Latest |Latest option will Load the asset
with all of the latest versions of the textures.

|[multiblock cell omitted] |Current |Current option will loads the asset
with all of the current versions of the textures.

|*Connection Type* |[multiblock cell omitted] |Connection type lists the
option of connecting to 3rd party softwares such as Maya, Houdini, XSI.

|*Connection Port* |[multiblock cell omitted] |[multiblock cell omitted]
|=======================================================================

The Asset loader lists assets that can be loaded into the session, based
on the result of the search filters at the top. Each asset listed shows
an icon with some useful information identifying the asset. The checkin
column will open a hidden row which will display the version history of
the assets.

image:media/assetList.png[image]

The latest version of the asset is shown on the right side, along with
the version number and the context of this version. The context of an
asset is the current view of the asset and can represent the various
stages in the asset's evolution.

image:media/versionList.png[image]

To load an asset directly into the 3D application session, click on the
check box beside the asset in the leftmost column, then click the Load
button at the top of the list (below the loading options). TACTIC will
load this asset as a reference into the session. When an asset is loaded
into the session, the gray dot will turn green if it is the latest.

image:media/greenLight.png[image]

If it is an older version, then the gray dot will turn red, indicating
that a newer version is available. Looking at the top level, a green dot
indicates that the latest version with the correct context is loaded
into the session. If there are multiple versions of the asset located in
the session, all of the corresponding versions in the history will have
green check marks beside them.

image:media/redLight.png[image]

To find out which version you have loaded, go to the history by clicking
on the arrow:

image:media/currentVersion.png[image]

In this case, version 1 of the model context is loaded (as shown by the
green check mark next to the exact version of snapshot that is in the
session).
