Sidebar
-------

image:media/1_tactic_sidebar_overview.png[image]

The TACTIC sidebar is the main menu system for navigating through the
views in the TACTIC Project. The access rules applied to a specific
account determine the contents of the sidebar as well as which views are
displayed when a user is logged in.

The items in the sidebar provide links to existing views within a
project. These views are built by your organization's production manager
based on a selection of columns (properties), layouts (order and column
width) and a search. If a search view is available, it provides a
dynamic report based on the definition of the search.

The sidebar is divided into three different categories, "Project Views",
"My Views" and "Admin Views".

[width="100%",cols="20%,80%",]
|=======================================================================
|image:media/3_tactic_sidebar_project_view.png[image]
|[multiblock cell omitted]
|=======================================================================

*Admin Views* displays the project schema and the TACTIC system and
administration schemas. Access to the Admin Views section of the sidebar
is generally reserved for admin level users.

*My Admin* - My Admin holds views that will allow the users to manage My
Views and My Preferences.

image:media/5_tactic_sidebar_my_admin.png[image]

[width="100%",cols="29%,71%",]
|=======================================================================
|*Manage My Views* |Edits the views saved in the "My Views" section.

|*My Preference* |Preferences include: Debug, Web Client Logging Level,
Color Palette, Language, Quick Text for Note Sheet Thumbnail Size
|=======================================================================

You can add any view to the sidebar very easily. If you have a view open
in a tab, you can simply right click on the tab and select “Add to Side
Bar”. This will add the link to the sidebar under the Project Views.
This will allow you to customize the sidebar and let you quickly open
your important views which you use regularly.

image:media/11_tactic_sidebar_adding.png[image]

Now, “My Dashboard” will be a link in the sidebar which takes you to
this view. You can just as easily remove this link from the sidebar by
right clicking on the link and selecting “Remove Link”.

image:media/12_tactic_sidebar_removing.png[image]
