Workflow Editor
---------------

image:media/1_workflow_editor_overview.png[image]

The Workflow Editor is a graphical tool in TACTIC used to interactively
create pipelines (workflows). It is a node-based tool which creates
processes in a pipeline and connects them. The Workflow Editor makes it
easier to create large complex pipelines to filter and process
information and file system flow.

The Workflow Editor is simple to use and similar to node base utilities
commonly found in other applications. Nodes can be created in the canvas
and connected together. Each node represents a process (with attributes
associated to it) and each connection represents information being
delivered from one process to the other. Together, the Workflow Editor
helps you create a definition of the pipeline document and drive much of
the information flow in TACTIC.

*Access the Workflow Editor*

Access the Workflow Editor by going to:

*Admin Views -> Project Admin -> Project Workflow*

When the option for "Has Pipeline" is selected during the registration
of the sType, this defines a default pipeline for that sType. This
pipeline can be found defined in the Workflow Editor in the sidebar
under *Project Pipelines*. To add a new pipeline manually, the select
the [+] icon in bottom panel of the Workflow Editor.

image:media/2_workflow_editor_pipelines_panel.png[image]

The buttons at the top of the Workflow Editor allow various operations
on the canvas:

image:media/pipeline_tools.png[image]

* *Create:* Creates a new node on the canvas.
* *Delete:* Deletes the selected node.
* *Save:* Saves the current state of the pipeline to the database.
* *Clear:* Clears the canvas.
* *Properties:* Opens the Node Properties panel.

To edit the properties of a pipeline, first select a node in the
pipeline and then click on the *Edit Properties* button on the tool
shelf.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

For more information regarding the Process Options, refer to the section
Project Workflow -> Pipeline Process Options
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

image:media/7_workflow_editor_properties.png[image]

When you click the green plus button,
*Create*image:media/add_button.png[image], a new node will appear on the
canvas.

image:media/pipeline_node_insert.png[image]

Rename the node: Select the new node and press CTRL-LMB to rename the
node. Alternatively, right click and select *Rename Node* from the
context menu.

image:media/pipeline_node_naming.png[image]

Type in the new name for the node ("Model," in this example), and press
*Enter*.

image:media/pipeline_node.png[image]

Create another new node (called "Texture" in this example).

image:media/pipeline_nodes.png[image]

To create a connection between the two nodes, click on the handle on the
right side of the "Model" node. This will create a connector which will
follow the cursor.

image:media/pipeline_node_connector.png[image]

Click on the left handle of the "Texture" node to complete the
connection. Now, the 2 nodes are connected together. Once 2 nodes are
connected, they will stay connected unless the connector is selected and
deleted.

image:media/pipeline_node_connection.png[image]

It is also possible to have one node connect to more than one node. In
the following example, the "Model" process delivers to both the
"Texture" process and a "Rig" process:

image:media/Pipeline_node_tree.png[image]

Repetition and daily components that make up a user's workflow can be
made easier through automation of notifications, file/directory naming
and triggering custom logic. Automations such as these can vary from
simply sending an email or automatically setting upstream and downstream
task statuses to running custom Python scripts and tools to encode
files, submit renders, generate previews, deliver files to clients, etc.

On the Workflow Editor's canvas, right-clicking on a node will bring up
the context menu where the automation interfaces can be loaded into the
lower half of the interface. These options include:

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|=======================================================================
|*Show Properties* |Loads the Node Properties window.

|*Show Triggers/Notifications* |Loads the Triggers and Notifications
setup Interface

|*Show File Naming* |Loads the Directory and File naming convention
setup Interface
|=======================================================================

________________________________________________________________________________________________
*Note*

Each of the menu options are explained in the "Project Automation"
section of the documentation.
________________________________________________________________________________________________

When the cursor is over the canvas in the pipeline editor, the following
mouse and keyboard shortcuts are available:

[width="100%",cols="51%,49%",]
|=======================================================================
|*LMB* on a node |Select the node

|*LMB* on the empty canvas space |Clears selection

|*LMB + Ctrl* click on a node |Edits the name of the node

|*LMB + Shift* click on a node |Add node to selection

|*LMB + drag* on a node |Drags the node around the canvas

|*LMB + drag* on the empty canvas space |Pans around the canvas

|*LMB + Shift + drag* to form a selection box |Forms a selection box

|*LMB + Ctrl + drag* to the left or the right |Zooms in or out on the
canvas

|*DELETE* |Deletes the selected node(s)
|=======================================================================

To change the node color, go to the *Workflow Editor -> sidebar*

right click on the pipeline and select *Edit Pipeline Data*

image:media/3_workflow_editor_edit_pipeline_data.png[image]

Next, click on the color input field. A color swatch will pop-up. Select
the new color for this pipeline from the color swatch.

image:media/4_workflow_editor_change_node_color.png[image]

Another way to change the color is in the *Workflow Editor -> Pipelines
tab (panel at the bottom)* click on the *color* column and pick the
color from the color swatch.

image:media/5_workflow_editor_change_node_color_method_two.png[image]

Right click on the pipeline node will display the following menu
options:

image:media/6_workflow_editor_node_context_menu.png[image]

[width="100%",cols="51%,49%",]
|=======================================================================
|*Add To Current Group* |Add the selected node to the current group

|*Rename Node* |Rename the current selected node

|*Delete Node* |Delete the current selected node

|*Delete Group* |Delete the group for the current selected node

|*Edit Properties* |Edit the properties for the current selected node

|*Show Triggers/Notifications* |Display the triggers and notifications
view in the bottom panel

|*Show Processes* |Display the processes in the bottom panel

|*Customize Task Status* |Create a custom task status pipeline for the
process (refresh the Workflow Editor to see it added to the sidebar)
|=======================================================================

Behind the scenes, the pipeline is an XML text document. This document
is how TACTIC stores its representation of the pipeline structure of
nodes and connections.

Although it is rare to need to manually edit the pipeline XML structure,
it is available at the bottom of the Workflow Editor in the pipelines
table in the *Data* column.

Below is an example of the pipeline XML for the *Model -> Rig / Texture*
pipeline:

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<pipeline scale='100'>
  <process name='model' ypos='-95' xpos='-138'/>
  <process name='rig' color='blue' xpos='38' completion='80' task_pipeline='task' ypos='-165'/>
  <process name='texture' ypos='-51' xpos='42'/>
  <connect to='rig' from='model'/>
  <connect to='texture' from='model'/>
</pipeline>
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
