Search Interface
----------------

image:media/1_search_overview.png[image]

*Description*

The TACTIC Search Box is used to build filters to refine the results in
the view. A variety of search filters can be constructed, ranging from
simple column searches to large complex compound searches. The creation
of search filters closely resembles that of creating mail filters in a
mail application. Each search filter plays a role in the outcome of the
final results. The Search Box is flexible enough to handle any kind of
search.

*Keyword Search*

Open the Search Criteria by clicking the
image:media/NEW_search_button.png[image] button on the tool shelf.

image:media/2_search_keyword.png[image]

The keyword search section allows for creation of a search filter to
search on the words found in the column named *keywords*. These keywords
must be manually inputted and updated.

*Filter*

image:media/3_search_filter.png[image]

The Filter section allows for the creation and activation of search
filters. Each search filter operates on one attribute on that sType.
These searches use standard text search logic and supports TACTIC's
expression language.

The *Clear* button clears out all the data in all the search filters:
resets the drop down selection boxes and clears out the input search
criteria box.

*Parent Search*

image:media/4a_search_parent_schema.png[image]

image:media/4b_search_parent_search_filter.png[image]

A search can be based on any property of a parent search type. For
example, if asset_category is the parent type then a search can be made
based on the properties of the parent. For example, a filter can be
created on the parent (asset_category) where the code is "video".

*Children Search*

image:media/5_search_children.png[image]

The Children search filter allows refining based on data in columns in
the children. For example, a filter can be created to find all tasks
where the priority is greater than 3.

*Matching and Compound Searches*

Click the [+] icon beside a search parameter to add additional search
definitions.

image:media/6_search_plus.png[image]

The drop down selection box at the top of the search box can be used to
set up the search to be match open (matching *any* of the definitions)
or match specific (matching *all* of the definitions). The default match
option is "Match all".

image:media/7_search_match.png[image]

Compound Search gives the capability to set an *AND* or an *OR* option
for filters. The default compound search option is "AND".

To switch the compound search option, select "Compound Search" from the
drop down selection box at the top, add a new search filter, click on
the word "and" that appears between the search filters to toggle it to
"or".

image:media/8_search_compound.png[image]

*Operators*

image:media/9_search_operators.png[image]

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|=======================================================================
|*is* |Finds an exact match. eg. Process "is" Compositing

|*is not* |Finds all the results that do not match exactly. eg. Process
"is not" Compositing

|*contains* |Does a partial match. eg. Process "contains" ompost

|*does not contain* |Finds all the results that do not match a partial
match.

|*is empty* |Match the empty field.

|*starts with* |Match on the beginning part of the string. eg. Process
"starts with" Comp

|*ends with* |Match the ending part of the string. eg. Process "ends
with" ing

|*in* |Match any of the strings delimited by "|". eg Process "in"
Compositing|Lighting

|*not in* |Find all the results that do not match the strings delimited
by "|".

|*is distinct* |Skip duplicates. eg. Sequence "is distinct".
|=======================================================================

*The "In" Operator*

It is possible to search for items in a list using a simple text string
with a "|" operator. For example, search for either "TM_001" or "TM_002"
or "TM_003":

------------------------------------------
Sequence code  [in] "TM_001|TM_002|TM_003"
------------------------------------------

image:media/10_search_operator_in.png[image]

The vertical bar (a logical "or") is a delimiter that specifies that the
search should look for any item with the code "TM_001" or "TM_002" or
"TM_003".

To switch the compound search option, select "Compound Search" from the
drop down selection box at the top, add a new search filter, click on
the word "and" that appears between the search filters to toggle it to
"or".

The "Is Distinct" Operator

This operator filters out items with the same column value. ie. The
results will only contain items that have a distinct entry in that
column.

----------------------------
Sequence code  [is distinct]
----------------------------

image:media/11a_search_operator_is_distinct_view.png[image]

image:media/11b_search_operator_is_distinct_filter.png[image]

note: there is no need to put any criteria in the box when using the
operator *is distinct*

*Saving Searches*

When saving a view as either "Project View" or "My View", the search
filters are also saved with the view. Once the view is saved, the next
time the view is opened, the search filters will be applied. This makes
saving a view essentially like generating a report with a predefined set
of criteria.
