Introduction to TACTIC
----------------------

*What is TACTIC?*

TACTIC is an extensible, web-based data and file management system.
TACTIC centralizes the following aspects of digital project workflow:

* Production data management
* Scheduling
* File (Asset) Management
* Communication
* Reporting
* and more

*How does TACTIC work?*

TACTIC manages two aspects of Digital Content Management: Project data
and Files. TACTIC maintains both of these components in one unified
source.

[width="100%",cols="23%,77%",]
|=======================================================================
|*Project Data* |Project data is stored in the Database |Project Data is
the information and lists that are traditionally tracked in
spreadsheets. TACTIC has the ability to list all files you manage along
with task assignments, status', and scheduling data, which can be viewed
in simple table formats or complex custom reports. TACTIC eliminates
lost email threads, missing documents, and the need to update complex
spreadsheets. The "database" is the base location for all data. i.e.
notes, reports, schedules etc. What a database provides is a central
location for this information.

|*Content/Files* |Files stored in the File System |Content refers to the
actual files. When managing assets/files the directory and file naming,
along with proper version control is what makes TACTIC unique. Files in
TACTIC are managed externally in a file system. i.e. hard drive. The
file server typically has a root 'assets' directory. From this location,
TACTIC handles the filenames and directories for that file system.
|=======================================================================

*What can I do with TACTIC?*

End-Users have various roles within a project or organization. The
TACTIC interface can be moulded to provide each group (department) with
the ideal interface.

The TACTIC security architecture is a rules-based system where each
End-User is provided with a login. The End-User is assigned to groups
determined by the project leader or administrator. These rules determine
what the End-User has access to within TACTIC.

Communication between groups and departments can be tracked in real-time
by using the TACTIC Notes functionality. This method eliminates lost
email threads and misplaced documents.

TACTIC can manage limitless amount of tasks, the status of those tasks
and the location of all files being managed. TACTIC gives the End-User
an accurate real-time understanding of how a project is progressing.

The table below illustrates how various End-Users may interact with
TACTIC in a single organization.

[width="100%",cols="23%,77%",]
|=======================================================================
|*Content Creator* |The Content Creator often requires a view of all
tasks assigned. The user can update a status, check in and check out
files, log work hours and communicate with Supervisors using the Notes
widget.

|*Supervisor/Manager* |The Manager/Supervisor is often required to
schedule tasks, manage content and resources. The project schedule can
be adjusted in the User Schedule or Project Tasks view. The TACTIC
interface provides high level planning, communication and reporting
tools. The Supervisor often has access to all views which provides the
ability to plan and adjust the overall needs of a project quickly and
easily.

|*Client* |Clients often need to review project material (documents,
videos, images etc) and managing this continuous feed of content is
often a hurdle. TACTIC's built in web technology allows Clients to
deliver files and provide real-time feedback without FTP or Email.
TACTIC can provide Clients with only the specific views and permissions
needed for each project.

|*Executive* |Executives require a high level view of the project. This
often involves building views or "reports" that correlate data from all
aspects of the project. TACTIC is able to provide cost reporting,
completion, efficiency and location of bottlenecks.
|=======================================================================

*What can I do in TACTIC?*

TACTIC is a transaction system allowing users to search, interact,
update and report on project data and files. These interactions are
carried out using a few main operations:

* *Search* - Search query results are often displayed in a list where
you can interact with your project data.
* *Insert* - Additions or "Insert" new data is often done at the start
of a new project. This is done through various interface tools like
forms, multi inserts, CSV import and more.
* *Update* - Updating existing data is sometimes required. For example;
updating a status, adding keywords, or changing an assigned user.
Specific views and tools also allow for selecting multiple items to edit
at one time.
* *Check-in* - Part of TACTIC's power is the ability to check in and
manage your files/assets. When you do a check-in, TACTIC versions and
names the directories and files in your file server. Files remain
organized and will never become lost.
* *Check-out* - When you need to work on some files that are already
checked into TACTIC, you can check them out. This process either points
you to the where the files are located, or downloads them to your
computer.
* *Undo/Redo* - Every action carried out within TACTIC can be undone. If
a mistake has been made, simply undo the transaction.

*How do I access the TACTIC interface?*

TACTIC is delivered as a web site. This web based solution is extremely
powerful because it allows for full interaction with TACTIC and also
direct integration with supported software packages.

Accessing TACTIC is as simple as visiting your server's address (URL) in
your web browser. For example:

link:#[http://yourcompany.southpawtech.com]

*Lets Get Started!*

The following End-User documentation provides general usage of the
TACTIC feature set. Additional information, tutorials, forums and
documentation is available on our TACTIC Community site:

link:#[http://community.southpawtech.com]
